everyone's just so focused on my past
relationships and friendships that
aren't even relevant to my videos but
it's like I'm trying really hard and no
what do you even cares you know bree
essrig born on the internet died on the
internet you are much more likely to
recognize her face than you are to
recognize her name Shane Dawson accuser
and gossip monger bree essrig was
heavily promoted by the young turks
network of news and current events
commentary youtube channels for years so
even if you have no interest in internet
drama even if you have no interest in
the sub-basement of youtube edgy dark
humor
it's really quite likely you've seen
brief essex face before may not know the
name here she is on the reuben report
yes yes y'all seven years ago back when
the rubin report was a left-wing show
before it's remarkable and inexplicable
transformation into being a right-wing
talk-show 3's rig was there and yeah she
also got in on the ground floor on the
shane dawson phenomenon the single most
viewed video on her own youtube channel
is featuring shane dawson and she
appeared in at least one video with him
on his channel that reached millions of
viewers it was a huge part of her
meteoric rise to fame eggs I'm on an
anti-anxiety so yeah I would literally
die but he didn't have this with all
that in mind here she is saying that
Shane Dawson ruined her life
and drove her to the brink of suicide
quote he honestly ruined my life at the
time I was suicidal and he got all
my friends to completely abandon me he
lied to all of us and constantly made us
turn on each other in our friendship
group so twisted and wrong and yes he's
racist AEF always has been can I can I
just ask if if AF is an abbreviation
shouldn't it be in capital letters
shouldn't it be capital a period capital
F period no just no just okay we're not
really questioning the difference
between true and false here nor the
difference being proven and unproven
with a statement like this we have to
ask if this is reasonable or
unreasonable bree essrig is someone who
has bragged about her mental problems on
the internet for many years she's
someone who boasts about the
mind-altering drugs she uses in order to
cope with her mental and emotional
problems some of the prescriptions some
of them not so much as we've just seen
in the clip I played you you know now I
can imagine that this story she's
telling is in some sense true and yet he
doesn't seem like a reasonable version
of events that there were there were
just no other complicating factors as to
why she and her friend group were
fighting amongst themselves why her
friends abandoned her why they were
gonna it really does sound like there's
more than one side of the story it just
doesn't seem possible that this is a
reasonable or well-intentioned account
of what happened if really anything
happened at all if there really is
anything worth gossip about at the basis
of this story of this allegation true or
false reasonable or unreasonable what
would motivate bree essrig to come out
and make a public statement about this
concerning something that happened close
to ten years ago you know I don't care
what people think
I care what I think I like
my videos so I'm gonna keep making
whatever I want to make and people can
just deal with it
Esther it was a co-host on The Young
Turks News Network and then became a
writer slash host on SourceFed from 2015
to 2017 can anyone remember SourceFed
can they want to remember the wave of
optimism when it was announced that
SourceFed was starting with an
investment of over 100 million dollars
that you know YouTube was no longer
gonna be a trivial nagging distraction
in people's lives was going to become
something really meaningful and and then
they produced nothing but this kind of
trivial nagging distraction now I just
want to say I am NOT in any way opposed
to bree essrig making use of her beauty
and sex appeal offering people humor
related to that side of human life on
planet earth but it's it's a very
strange sort of contrast to the position
she was put in by seemingly respectable
news networks and multi-million dollar
corporations The Young Turks included
just you know if they were gonna hire
anyone to do news analysis and political
commentary why would it be her when her
top rated videos are things such as yeah
what you see here at any rate bree
essrig does have reasons to lie she does
have reasons to suddenly become
passionately involved in this seemingly
trivial controversy around Shane Dawson
and the optics of his past dark edgy
comedy career a career that overlapped
with her own dark edgy comedy career if
you look at the number of views per
video on her own channel to say it has
been a downward curve since the old days
of her collaboration with Shane Dawson
would be an understatement yeah there is
one exception there in our second two
most recent video where she made a
sexually suggestive video that got a
considerable number of views but in
general 6,000 views 7,500 views is what
you're looking at and by the way there
is one
bar for each video on this bar chart so
we're not generalizing this is a video
by video total a video by video
breakdown as she's gone through this
downward spiral in every row the
optimists among us would like to say
that this is just a coincidence and it
may well be but if you're as pessimistic
about human nature as I am you probably
will not regard this as coincidental
only just at this moment just within the
last few weeks bree essrig has been
trying to promote her only fansite bree
essrig wait this isn't porn sad face now
I am not criticizing her for making that
choice she is trying to make the
transition from being a comedian and a
political analyst political commentator
she's trying to make a transition from
that background to being a full-time sex
symbol a full-time fetish model foot
model sexually provocative mom and you
know what it's probably a great choice
for her like I really do not hold this
against her in any way whatsoever
however however however the motivation
for her to make the most unreasonable
and extreme statement possible about her
past history with Shane Dawson rather
than giving a reasonable and balanced
account that could be linked to the fact
that this controversy right now is
drawing the attention of millions of
people not thousands but millions and
there's the potential for her to gather
a tremendous following of interested
heterosexual men and you know some
percentage of women who would like to
see these images of her and most of the
potential audience for herself as she's
trying to do be a sexy near nude fetish
model so most the audience will be
people who as I said at the beginning of
this video
vaguely remember her face they've seen
her in some video somewhere but don't
particularly remember her name but the
potential for her to be massively
successful is there and wouldn't it be
tempting wouldn't there be a motivation
knowing away at you at just the moment
when you're trying to promote your only
fans trying to promote this new period
of your own modeling career that you
could jump on this controversy with
Shane Dawson bree essrig so much
ambition so little talent quote he
ruined my life at the time I was really
depressed he made all my friends turn on
me and I became extremely suicidal
again I'm not really questioning true
versus false I'm questioning reasonable
or unreasonable alright I have been
through a very difficult divorce but you
would never hear me make this kind of
unreasonable statement about my ex-wife
who did terrible things to me did
terrible unforgivable things terrible
person blah blah blah but you know what
the truth is to make a statement like
this that you became suicidal because of
someone else that you became depressed
because of someone else or even that
your friends turned on you because
someone else
you know come on we're we're all fully
grown adults here it doesn't take a
whole lot of self-awareness to just
reflect and say hey there's not a simple
cause-and-effect relationship between
this other person's behavior and my
depression or my feeling suicidal or
even the behavior of my friends towards
me and my favor come on come on
even if this is in some sense true there
is no way that this can be reasonable or
well motivated as a public statement as
a public allegation and accusation at oh
yeah this one closes also with the
statement he's manipulative AF not
capitalized and most definitely racist
he was also racist behind the scenes as
well he used to make fun of his brothers
fiance all the time who wasn't white
when I called our friendship off because
of this he tore me apart online made up
a bunch of BS about me and his fans
bullied me for years
he was extremely manipulative he has a
way of making you feel special
well he's secretly damaging you behind
your back the worst part about it was he
would say quote my fans are of all
different races and they think it's
funny and tell me I'm allowed to do it
and that's actually true hundreds of
thousands of people did enable that
behavior and those jokes at the time I'm
glad I ended the friendship when I did I
closed this video by asking you in the
audience to think twice before you make
public statements before you make
private statements really ask yourself
not just about the difference between
true and false
ask yourself reasonable or honorees so I
was talking to my manager for a little
while today and he said something that
really stuck out to me three who are you
who are you as a brand how can we sell
you to people